In January of 2015 I started fiddling around with a prototype for an app. I've been tossing around the idea of teaching number sense for a few years and figured I might as well try building something. I proposed a research project at Khan Academy, and now a year later – after a lot of ups and downs – the doodles have become an iPhone app that's in beta testing! This is an overview of that journey.

Visually, this year breaks down into a series of weeks, each composed of days, where the green squares mark days that code was written for the Math Facts app. You can use the diagram below to see how the year progressed, where major events for the app's development are marked with colored bars. Some of those descriptions link to the [series of blog posts](/tag/math-facts) I've written about Math Facts, where you can read up on what happened in far more detail than what I'll cover here.

[[@ mathfactsyearcalendar]]

At the end of April I decided to give React Native a whirl and start building out my [app idea](/post/math-facts-part-1). The goal was to start with something simple – helping people memorize addition and multiplication facts – and use that to figure out if people would want it, and how to make something that they do want.

Since this was a research & development project, and by nature something that we didn't have a clear plan for shipping, I knew that the [project proposal](/post/math-facts-part-2) would have to put confidence in the hearts of those who read it. The proposal ended up going over *very* well, and was approved to start on April 27th! Much jumping for joy ensued.

The [five-week project](/post/math-facts-part-3) to build a prototype of the Math Facts app was one of the only R&D projects that was done at Khan Academy in 2015. It was also one of the first, and thus I had to define a lot of my own processes and be the first to make mistakes as I did that. Over those weeks I spent a lot of time collecting feedback from kids and adults and managed to roll out a prototype that exceeded all of my expectations. The next day I left on a 7-day charity bike-ride from San Francisco to Los Angeles, and after that I jumped straight back into a stream of projects for the main Khan Academy site.

Next thing I knew it was August 20th and I finally had time for a [follow-up meeting](/post/math-facts-part-4) about how the math facts project had gone. I am continuously surprised by the support, pragmatism, and *excitement* my fellow KAers exude when we talk about education. In the follow-up meeting we brainstormed possible paths we could take from here, but since I was slated to start on a 6-month initiative to redevelop the Khan Academy content library, there just wouldn't be time for another Math Facts project until March 2016.

As anyone who has ever built something they're passionate about can tell you: taking a 6-month break from your brain-child isn't very enticing.

Without time in my work schedule to work on Math Facts, I started planning how to turn it into a sustainable [side project](/post/math-facts-part-5). Since I wouldn't have 4-8 hours a day to write code, I'd have to use my time very wisely. As always, I went back to my roots and started fleshing out a new plan to make progress with the limited time that I had available. If [the Lean Startup](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lean_startup) has taught me anything it's that **you can always go leaner**. There's always something you can cut from scope until you have the bare minimum that you need to test your idea.

The rough part, I learned, was that **interacting with users takes a lot of time**. My day job is coding, and at this point it's easy for me to get into the flow of writing code for 4 hours straight and walk out of it with a smile and a spring in my step. Writing emails to potential beta testers and conducting user interviews are a-whole-nother story. As much as I enjoyed [testing with kids](/post/math-facts-part-6) at the Khan Lab School, it was draining and time-consuming. In the interest of documenting this process honestly, the trail-off of commits at the end of December was caused by this. I knew that I didn't have the time or mental stamina to conduct good user research on the side.

Something I did have time for (or at least, [made time for](/post/time-tracking-experiment-nov-2015)) was starting to blog about Math Facts. Something I've been repeatedly told by people this year is that I should brag about my work. Or at least, you know, talk about it at all. I started this blog in hopes of writing [many fast posts](/post/write-fast-fail-often) instead of obsessing over making them into timeless works of art. I still have a lot more that I could write about how the Math Facts project has been going.

It's not over now, though – far from it. I have a plan for how I'm going to set up long-term cohorts of testers for the app, and just need to put that into practice. Time! Oh how I wish I had more time. Here's to a new year of finding more time, failing, and growing. <3